Prep Time: 30-40 minutes
Cook Time: 3.5 hours
Serving Size: Feeds 6-8 people

Ingredients:

4 Pound bone-in beef chuck roast 1/2 Pound of smoked bacon (cut into 1/2″ cubes if unsliced, 1″ strips if sliced) 2 Tbsp extra virgin olive oil  1/3 Cup balsamic vinegar
28 oz can of crushed tomatoes 2 Tbsp tomato paste 2 Tbsp Worcestershire sauce 1/2 Cup golden raisins 1 Cup green olives 10 Crushed garlic cloves 1 Chopped yellow onion 1/2 Cup of chopped parsley Salt and Pepper to taste

Instructions
	1.	Preheat your oven to 350 degrees.
	2.	Season your beef chuck roast with salt and pepper. Don’t be shy, this is a large piece of meat.
	3.	Heat up your cast iron skillet on the stove on high. Once the pan is smoking, add the olive oil- notice it will ‘shimmer’ almost instantly.
	4.	Place the chuck roast into the hot skillet to sear, being careful not to splatter any oil.
	5.	While the pan is still hot, turn the heat down to medium-high.  Add the bacon and let it render down a bit (about 1 minute) – stirring so that the bacon does not burn.
	6.	To the bacon, add the garlic, onions, olives, golden raisins.
	7.	Sauté this mixture until the onions are translucent and caramelized, then turn the heat down to medium. Slowly add the crushed tomatoes, tomato paste, water and Worcestershire sauce.  Mix until everything is incorporated. 
	8.	Let this mixture stew for about 2 minutes.  While stirring, add the bourbon balsamic vinegar.  Continue stirring.
	9. 	After about 2 more minutes, your mixture should have reduced down by at least 1/3 of the original volume. Add the seared chuck roast back in to the pan, ensuring the balsamic tomato mixture coats every single square inch of the roast.
	10.	Top the mixture with parsley and cover (Pro-tip: cover your lid with aluminum foil for easy cleanup later).  Place into the 350 degree oven for 3-4 hours or until a fork pushes easily into the meat. 
	11. 	Once the roast is done, remove it from the oven and place on a large cutting board to rest.  Now its time to make the sauce! Take what remaining meat and tomato juices and as Alton Brown affectionately calls it, “chunkies” (the roasted onions, olives, garlic and raisins) and place it into a sauce pan.  Now take your immersion blender (or regular blender) and blend until it reaches a smooth consistency. 
	12. 	For presentation, I like to serve my pot roast right on the cutting board topped with fresh parsley.  I then carve into it right before serving and top it with that delicious sweet and savory ‘gravy’.  This roast is served with roasted carrots and cabbage, seasoned simply with the black truffle garlic olive oil, salt and pepper (cooked at 350 degrees for 30-40 minutes or until golden brown and tender). 


Roast for 30 minutes at 220°C (Gas Mark 7).
Reduce oven temperature to 160 °C (Gas Mark 3) and continue to roast for:
Rare – 20 minutes per Kg (9 minutes per pound)
Medium - 30 minutes per KG 
