Carne asada just means marinated grilled steak (asar being to grill, asada being grilled, and asador being spit). This is NOT what I would consider to be an authentic Mexican version of carne asada, so be aware of that.
My family is mostly from Texas, some relatives from northern Mexico, and they have their own way--the way my family does it involves oranges, different oil, multiple cuts of meat, and more chili peppers. But everyone has a different way, and this combination of lime, ancho, soy, honey, cumin and garlic actually works really well. I’ve used it for steak as well as chicken, although I usually swap in canola for olive oil.
Source: Food & Wine

1/2 cup olive oil, plus more for oiling grill
1 tablespoon whole cumin seeds
4 garlic cloves, smashed
3/4 cup packed fresh cilantro leaves, divided
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1 tablespoon soy sauce
2 teaspoons ancho chile powder
2 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt, divided
1 teaspoon honey
1 1/2 pounds skirt steak, cut crosswise into 2 equal pieces
Lime wedges and pico de gallo, for serving

Heat oil, cumin, and garlic in a small skillet over medium. Cook, stirring often, until fragrant and garlic is lightly browned, 3 to 4 minutes. Remove from heat, and let cool 5 minutes. Combine oil mixture, 1/2 cup cilantro, lime juice, soy sauce, chile powder, 1 1/2 teaspoons salt, and honey in a blender. Process until smooth, about 30 seconds. Reserve 1 tablespoon marinade mixture; pour remaining mixture over skirt steak pieces in a large ziplock plastic freezer bag. Seal bag, and shake to ensure steak is evenly coated. Chill 2 hours.
Remove steaks from marinade, and place on a rimmed baking sheet lined with paper towels (do not rub off excess marinade). Sprinkle both sides of steaks with remaining 3/4 teaspoon salt, and let stand at room temperature while preheating grill. Open bottom vent of grill completely. Light charcoal chimney starter filled with natural lump charcoal (about 4 pounds). When the charcoal is covered with gray ash, pour evenly onto bottom grate of grill. Place top grill grate on grill, close lid, and preheat to high (450°F to 500°F).

Place steaks on oiled grill grate. Grill, uncovered, until charred and cooked to desired degree of doneness, about 2 minutes per side for medium-rare. Let steak rest 5 minutes on a cutting board with a juice channel. Slice steak against the grain. Stir together board juices and reserved 1 tablespoon marinade; drizzle over sliced steak. Sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup cilantro. Serve with lime wedges and pico de gallo.
Notes: /u/dengop mentioned this and I can't believe I forgot to add it--make sure you blot the marinade off your steak if you want to get a really nice char. I will actually go as far as to blot it and then brush it with a thin layer of neutral oil. Also, some of the other cuts you can use for this include sirloin, flank, or trimmed brisket pieces, or flat iron steak.
